
*PyBuda monitors many environment variables to modify default behavior. These can be used to debug or analyze problems.*

## Overrides
 * PYBUDA\_BUILD\_DIR: Override the build directory for the compiler.
 * LOGURU\_LEVEL: set Python logger level - default is DEBUG, valid values are INFO, DEBUG, TRACE, NONE
 * LOGGER\_LEVEL: set C++ logger level - values are the same as Python logger
 * PYBUDA\_DEVMODE: set to make Golden/Sequential default run mode if one isn't specified explicitly
 * PYBUDA\_PROFILE: enable Python profiler
 * PYBUDA\_ASSERT\_UNSUPPORTED\_HW\_OP: assert if an unsupported op is found
 * PYBUDA\_BALANCER\_PLACER\_DATA: prints balancer/placer visual info, prints chip op group info
 * PYBUDA\_BALANCER\_POLICY\_TYPE: override balancer policy
 * PYBUDA\_SCHEDULER\_POLICY: override scheduler policy
 * PYBUDA\_BALANCER\_ONE\_ROW: limit placement to one row
 * PYBUDA\_ENABLE\_T\_STREAMING: enable t-streaming (i.e. streaming ops with small output buffers)
 * PYBUDA\_ENABLE\_TVM\_CACHE: Cache tvm graphs instead of re-compiling
 * PYBUDA\_FORCE\_FULL\_COMPILE\_DEPTH: Force each test to run to compile depth "FULL"
 * PYBUDA\_RELOAD\_GENERATED\_MODULES: Reload previously generated modules instead of recompiling through tvm.
 * PYBUDA\_SKIP\_L1\_USAGE\_VALIDATION: allows ops to use more L1 than available
 * PYBUDA\_ENFORCE\_SAME\_UBLOCK\_OPERANDS: ???
 * PYBUDA\_VERIFY\_NET2PIPE: verify produced netlist using net2pipe
 * PYBUDA\_CI\_DIR: ???
 * PYTEST\_CURRENT\_TEST: ???
 * PYBUDA\_CI\_CAPTURE\_TENSORS: save tensors used in the test so they can be used in stand-alone back-end tests
 * PYBUDA\_FORCE\_SEQUENTIAL: override test/script to run everything in sequential mode
 * PYBUDA\_TRACE\_SHUTDOWN: show stack trace on shutdown due to error
 * PYBUDA\_OVERRIDE\_NUM\_CHIPS: force the number of chips to use, instead of the auto-detected number
 * PYBUDA\_DISABLE\_DYNAMIC\_DRAM: disable dynamic allocation of e2e queues in inference
 * PYBUDA\_DISABLE\_FORK\_JOIN\_BUF: disable fork-join buffering
 * PYBUDA\_DISABLE\_FORK\_JOIN\_NOPS: don't insert nops if there's not enough buffering. Just add what's available in L1. This should only be used for debug.
 * PYBUDA\_FORK\_JOIN\_DEBUG\_INFO: print debug logs related to fork-join buffering
 * PYBUDA\_FORK\_JOIN\_DEBUG\_FORK\_NAME: filter debug logs (generated by PYBUDA\_FORK\_JOIN\_DEBUG\_INFO) by fork node name
 * PYBUDA\_FORK\_JOIN\_DEBUG\_JOIN\_NAME: filter debug logs (generated by PYBUDA\_FORK\_JOIN\_DEBUG\_INFO) by join node name
 * PYBUDA\_FORK\_JOIN\_SKIP\_EXPANDING\_BUFFERS: don't expand buffers in L1 - this will cause algorithm to add buffering nops/queues any time a fork-join needs to be buffered.
 * PYBUDA\_FORK\_JOIN\_EXPAND\_OUTPUT\_BUFFERS: expand only output buffers (instead of input buffers) for fork-join buffering
 * SHOW\_ALL\_FAILS: don't assert on the first data mismatch, but show all fails before failing the test
 * PYBUDA\_EXP\_APPROX: run exp in approximate mode
 * PYBUDA\_VERIFY\_RESULTS\_OFF\_BY\_DEFAULT: disable result verification (tensor comparison of processed and golden module done via forward pass)
 * PYBUDA\_ENABLE\_STABLE\_SOFTMAX: enable stable Softmax (disabled by default)
 * EVAL\_DEBUG: prints inputs/outputs during module evaluation
 * TT\_BACKEND\_GOLDEN\_QUANTIZE: ???
 * PYBUDA\_RESET\_DEV\_BEFORE\_TEST: resets device between tests (pytest must be called with --forked in order to work)
 * PYBUDA\_PERF\_SIMULATOR: run performance simulator to estimate performance of the model
 * PYBUDA\_PERF\_SIMULATOR\_LOG: dump log of all events in perf simulator (will slow down the run)
 * PYBUDA\_PERF\_SIMULATOR\_TRACE: create trace file to be loaded into routeagui
 * PYBUDA\_OP\_PERF: dump op\_perf.csv file with op grid choices and estimated cycle counts
 * <u>PYBUDA\_BENCHMARK\_NO\_RESET\_ON\_ERROR: from the comments seems that it doesn't work, should we remove this one?</u>
 * PYBUDA\_SKIP\_BACKEND\_COMPILE: configure backend device to run in DeviceMode.RunOnly, picking up build binaries from previous run
 * PYBUDA\_PLACER\_BWD\_GROUPS: use bwd groups when placing so that fwd and bwd ops are placed together
 * PYBUDA\_TRIPLET\_PLACEMENT: try to place bwd groups in "triplet" placement strategy
 * PYBUDA\_EXP\_APPROX: force exp and exponent in gelu\_derivative to run in approximate mode (i.e. faster, but less accurate)
 * PYBUDA\_AMP\_LEVEL: configure the AMP (Automatic Mixed Precision) optimization level.
 * PYBUDA\_NO\_FUSE\_MATMUL\_BIAS: disable fusing of matmul+add into matmul
 * PYBUDA\_ENABLE\_OUTPUT\_QUEUES\_ON\_HOST: configures whether whether output queues are placed on HOST (default: true)
 * PYBUDA\_FORCE\_VERIFY\_ALL: ensure that verification is run after each compile stage, overrides VerifyCondig.disabled()
 * PYBUDA\_VERIFY\_POST\_AUTOGRAD\_PASSES: verify graph after post autograd passes, unless the verify config is VeifyConfig.disabled()
 * PYBUDA\_VERIFY\_POST\_PLACER: verify graph after post placer pass, unless the verify config is VeifyConfig.disabled()
 * PYBUDA\_GALAXY\_LINEAR\_ROUTE: place graphs sequentially in a snake route around the Galaxy modules
 * PYBUDA\_NEBULA\_GALAXY\_PLACER: only place output nop on mmio chip for untilizing
 * PYBUDA\_ENABLE\_AUTO\_TRANSPOSE: configures whether auto-transpose is enabled while op placement (default: false)
 * PYBUDA\_MINIMIZE\_REMOTE\_DRAM\_QUEUES: configures behaviour for data forking to remote chips - create single e2e queue on producer or e2e queue per consumer chip (default)
 * PYBUDA\_SPARSE\_MM\_ENCODING\_ESTIMATES\_OFF: when on, turns off estimation logic for in0/in2 for sparse mm, but gets slower
 * PYBUDA\_REBLOCK\_INPUT\_ACT: when enabled, we reblock input activations to the smallest grid across all users instead of forcing 1x1. (default: disabled)
 * PYBUDA\_DUMP\_MIXED\_PRECISION: when on, dump json with a per-op info about fidelity, data-formats (default: off). Default directory: reportify dump directory.
 * PYBUDA\_FRACTURIZATION\_DISABLE: disables kernel fracturing for convolutions
 * PYBUDA\_PRESTRIDE\_DISABLE: disables prestriding transform for convs
 * PYBUDA\_LEGALIZER\_DETAILED\_DEBUGGING: when on provides detailed debugging information and statistics about legalizer OpModel selection process including GraphSolver. Works only in DEBUG(default: off).
 * PYBUDA\_LEGALIZER\_DEBUG\_NODE\_NAME: used together with legalizer detailed debugging to narrow down debugging info to single node. Works only in DEBUG(default: off).
 * PYBUDA\_GRAPHSOLVER\_SELF\_CUT\_TYPE: Override for graph_solver_self_cut_type in BalancerConfig. Valid values: None, ConsumerOperandDataEdgesFirst, ProducerUserDataEdgesFirst, FastCut. When switched on(not None) graphsolver will cut edges for which it cannot produce valid paths. (default: None)
 * PYBUDA\_MAX\_GRAPH\_CUT\_RETRY: Override for default_resolve_retry_count_self_cutting in GraphSolver::resolve. This sets the max retry step if GraphSolver self cut is turned on.
 * PYBUDA\_REPLACE\_INF\_IN\_TVM\_PARAMS: Replace -inf and inf values from TVM parameters during PyBuda code generation.
 * PYBUDA\_FORCE\_ALLOW\_FRACTURING: All convs will be candidates for fracturing - this does NOT mean that all convs will fracture (search for is_kernel_fracturing_candidate)
 * PYBUDA\_DISABLE\_FUSE\_TAGS: Specify a list of ops (comma delimited) by original_op_type/op_type that will be exempt from fusion (e.g. PYBUDA\_DISABLE\_FUSE\_TAGS="reciprocal,softmax").
 * PYBUDA\_BISECT\_FUSING: bool, false by default. When it is set to true, we bisect fusing by defining PYBUDA\_FUSE\_OP\_FIRST\_IND and PYBUDA\_FUSE\_OP\_LAST\_IND.
 * PYBUDA\_FUSE\_OP\_FIRST\_IND: First index in topologically sorted graph of ops to fuse.
 * PYBUDA\_FUSE\_OP\_LAST\_IND: Last index in topologically sorted graph of ops to fuse.
 * PYBUDA\_SINGLE\_OP\_EPOCHS: Place every single op on a new epoch.
 * PYBUDA\_FORK\_JOIN\_BUF\_QUEUES: Turn on adding buffering queues instead of nops in fork joins that need a lot of buffering (have one path much larger than the other).
 * PYBUDA\_RESNET\_BUFF\_QUEUE\_OVERRIDE: Turn off adding buffering queues in graph solver cut. Temporal fix for ResNet perf.
 * PYBUDA\_OVERRIDE\_DEVICE\_YAML: Override the soc device descriptor to compile against different device configurations.
 * PYBUDA\_DISABLE\_INTERACTIVE\_PLACER: Override balancer policy not to use Interactive placer and to fallback to legacy placer instead. (default: 0/False)
 * PYBUDA\_DISABLE\_INTERACTIVE\_FJ\_BUFFERING: Override balancer policy not to use inlined fork-join buffering. (default: 0/False)
 * PYBUDA\_DISABLE\_PADDING\_PASS\: Disable running of padding pass.
 * PYBUDA\_PADDING\_PASS\_ELEMENT\_WISE: In padding pass pad elementwise ops.
 * PYBUDA\_PADDING\_PASS\_MATMUL: In padding pass pad matmul ops.
 * PYBUDA\_PADDING\_PASS\_SPARSE\_MATMUL: In padding pass pad sparse matmul ops. Needs to have matmul ops enabled for padding too in order to enable this.
 * PYBUDA\_PADDING\_PASS\_BUFFER\_QUEUE": Enable padding pass, insert buffer queue
 * PYBUDA\_ENABLE\_STOCHASTIC\_ROUNDING": Enable stochastic rounding for all supported ops.
 * PYBUDA\_PADDING\_PASS\_CONCAT": Enable padding pass, for concatenate operation
 * PYBUDA\_FORCE\_CONV\_MULTI\_OP\_FRACTURE: Forces all convs to be fractured (during decompose pass) according to heuristic defined in `pybuda/pybuda/op/eval/pybuda/convolution.py`.
 * PYBUDA\_COLLECT\_CONSTRAINT\_INFO: Enables constraint info collection on every graphsolver resolve.
 * PYBUDA\_GRAPHSOLVER\_FAST: Enables partial re-resolve on cut and buffer, much faster at cost of not enabling all possible valid OpModels.
 * NUM\_EXEC\_LOOP\_ITERATIONS: For single temporal epoch tests, you can specify a # here that will rerun the epoch the specified # of times. Each rerun is initiated by FW rather than requiring host interaction, to improve performance.
 * PYBUDA\_PADDING\_PASS\_DISABLE\_BUDA\_OP: Disable padding logic that uses buda implementation for pad and unpad.
 * PYBUDA\_ENABLE\_ETH\_SERIALIZATION: Enable the ethernet stream reduction pass, using the ethernet datacopy op to implement the stream reduction
 * PYBUDA\_ENABLE\_ETH\_DATACOPY\_SERIALIZATION: Enable the ethernet stream reduction pass, using the tensix datacopy/nop op to implement the stream reduction. Will only insert datacopy ops if there are free tensix cores
 * PYBUDA\_SUPRESS\_T\_FACTOR\_MM: Enables a condition in calculate_op_model in legalizer that limits the t factor of sparse/dense matmul ops to be less than the flag's value. Valid values: any positive int value (eg. 16)
 * PYBUDA\_AMP\_LIGHT: Enable a "light" version of mixed precision to minimize accuracy impact (default: 0/False; 1: bfp8/hifi2, 2: bfp4/hifi2, 3: bfp4/LoFi)
 * PYBUDA\_GRAPH\_NAME\_SUFFIX: Suffix to add to the graph name (helps to generate unique netlist names)
 * PYBUDA\_DISABLE\_L1\_ACCUMULATE: Flag for disabling and debugging L1 accumaulation feature.
 * PYBUDA\_OVERRIDE\_VETO: Used to Add/Remove/Update general and env var based compiler configurations. 
 * PYBUDA\_DISABLE\_REPORTIFY\_DUMP: Disable generating reportify graph. 
 * PYBUDA\_DISABLE\_CAP\_SPARSE\_MM\_FIDELITY: Disables an optimization to cap the fidelity phases of sparse matmul to at most HiFi2.
 * PYBUDA\_DISABLE\_EXPLICIT\_DRAM\_IO: Disables the FE from programming netlist attribute `input_dram_io_buf_size_tiles`.  Instead the FE will leave this attribute as `0` which implicitly means that the backend will handle the allocation of this buffer.
 * PYBUDA\_CONCAT\_ON\_HOST: Lower concatenate ops on output nodes into runtime transforms so that they're done on host.
 * PYBUDA\_OP\_MODEL\_COMPARE\_VERSION: Version of op model comparision function. Can be used to compare effect of different comparison logic on performance.
 * PYBUDA\_RIBBON1\_PREPASS\_ENABLED: Whether to use or not suboptimal opmodel invalidation prepass. Default value is False.
 * PYBUDA\_RIBBON2\_OPTIMIZATION\_ITERATIONS: Number of optimization iterations in Ribbon2 balancing policy. Default value is 0.
 * PYBUDA\_RIBBON2\_DISABLE\_CLEANUP\_BUF\_NOPS: Disable cleanup of unneeded buffering nops in Ribbon2. (default: 0/False)
 * PYBUDA\_RIBBON2\_CALCULATE\_TARGET\_CYCLES: Calculate target cycles for every epoch within Ribbon2 balancing policy. (default: 0/False)
 * PYBUDA\_RIBBON2\_CALCULATE\_TARGET\_CYCLES\_APPLY\_FILTERING: Apply filtering on GS search space while calculating dynamic cycles per epoch within Ribbon2 balancing policy. (default: 0/False)
 * PYBUDA\_ENABLE\_HOST\_INPUT\_NOP\_BUFFERING: Enable nop buffering of input host read. (default: 0/False)
 * PYBUDA\_AUTO\_RECOMPILE: Triggers handling of backend compile error and recompiles the model. (default: 0/False)
 * PYBUDA\_AUTO\_RECOMPILE\_RETRY\_LIMIT: Limits number of attempts to recompile. (default: 10)
 * PYBUDA\_TARGET\_CYCLES\_OFFSET: Sets the desired amount by which to offset the target cycles for balancer. Default value is 0.

 ## Golden overrides
 * GOLDEN\_WORMHOLE: run Golden with Wormhole as target device instead of Grayskull (default)
 * GOLDEN\_WORMHOLE\_B0: run Golden with Wormhole_B0 as target device instead of Grayskull (default)
 * PYBUDA\_GOLDEN\_BLACKHOLE: run Golden with Blackhole as target device instead of Grayskull (default)

## Temp overrides
* PYBUDA\_TEMP\_ENABLE\_NEW\_SPARSE\_ESTIMATES: Apply new formula to estimate the cycle count of sparse matmul ops (currently only support LoFi and HiFi2 fidelities)
* PYBUDA\_TEMP\_SCALE\_SPARSE\_ESTIMATE\_ARGS: Scale counts of non-zero tiles, ublocks and strips to reflect the numbers that would end up on a single core, since BBE estimates always assume grid_size [1,1].
* PYBUDA\_TEMP\_ELT\_UNARY\_ESTIMATES\_LEGACY: Force legacy path of calculating execution cycles for eltwise unary ops - instead of calling into BBE, use hand-crafted FE-side logic
* PYBUDA\_TEMP\_ENABLE\_NEW\_FUSED\_ESTIMATES: Apply new formula to estimate the cycle count of fused ops. The formula calls BBE to estimate each subop and sums up the results.
* PYBUDA\_LEGACY\_KERNEL\_BROADCAST: Use legacy kernel broadcast detection path. Will detect fewer kernel broadcasts, and will oftentimes use more tiles (longer KBs).
* PYBUDA\_TEMP\_BALANCER\_MODEL\_PCIE\_BW: Estimate PCIe bandwidth in limiter cycles. (default: 1/True))
* PYBUDA\_TEMP\_BALANCER\_DISABLE\_TARGET\_PROXIMITY: Disable target proximity in balancer. (default: 0/False)
* PYBUDA\_TEMP\_DISABLE\_FJ\_NOP\_SCHEDULE\_FIX: This flag disables a fix that forces FJ buffering nops to be scheduled last.
* PYBUDA\_TEMP\_FIX\_2351: Controls the fix for bug #2351 - fork-join can end up adding buffering nops and queues on same path, this control flag fixes it.
* PYBUDA\_TEMP\_DISABLE\_MODEL\_KB\_PROLOGUE\_BW: Disables bandwidth modelling for kernel broadcasted and prologued inputs.
